Right now, we're going take a look at creating an RDS database.
So in AWS management console,
we're going to make sure we're in the right region,
and we're going to go ahead and look for RDS in the search, find it, click,
and what we're going to do next,
is create an Aurora database with MySQL compatibility.
Then from there, we're going to go ahead and create a read replica.
So let's create our database.
We're going to do a standard create which is going to
take us through all the configuration steps.
Easy create just uses the recommended best practice configuration and it's really quick.
So let's just walk through the steps here.
We're going to have an Aurora database with MySQL compatibility,
one writer and multiple readers.
Our production database is going to be a little bit more costly than dev and test,
obviously because of high availability and
fast consistent performance as it's described here.
Let's give our database cluster a name,
UdacityCloudDB, and allow AWS to create a password for us.
When the database is creating,
a pop-up is going to appear that we can click on
and AWS will provide us with that complex password.
A memory optimized instance is fine, multi-AZ deployment.
We're not going to create a replica this time,
we're going to do that manually in the next step.
Default VPC is great and we're going to go ahead and create our database.
While it's doing that, we're going to go ahead and click here.
This is the first and last time that AWS will show us this password,
so you want to make sure that you make a note of it, copy it,
and paste it into some a database management tool, whatever you choose.
As we can see UdacityCloudDB is in a creating status.
So we'll give that some time to create.
Let's refresh it, see where we are in the process.
So our cluster has been created and it's just creating our instance.
Great. Successfully created our database.
So thanks for watching and we'll see you in the creating a read replica demo.